------------------------------------------------
answer---------------------------------------------
  The Cisco Catalyst 9200 series is a family of network switches that extend the power of intent-based networking and hardware innovation from the Cisco Catalyst 9000 to a broader set of deployments. These switches offer simplicity without compromise, are secure, always on, and provide simplified IT operations with investment protection for future innovations. They provide security features that protect the integrity of the hardware and software, as well as all data flowing through the switch. The switches also provide resiliency to keep businesses running smoothly and efficiently, with operational choice of CLI or Cisco Catalyst Center (formerly Cisco DNA Center) on-premises management or cloud monitoring for Catalyst on Meraki dashboard.
The key features of the Cisco Catalyst 9200 series include:
1. Full Power over Ethernet Plus (PoE+) capability for up to 48 ports on the C9200 model.
2. Resiliency with field-replaceable units (FRU) and redundant power supply, fans, and modular uplinks for models in the series.
3. Flexible power source options, including line voltage AC, low voltage DC, or high voltage DC (HVDC) for C9200CX models, providing customers with sustainable future investment protection.
4. Enhanced security with AES-128 MACsec encryption on Catalyst 9200 models and policy-based segmentation for trustworthy solutions.
5. Layer 3 features with modular or fixed uplinks, supporting stacking bandwidth up to 160 Gbps and operational efficiency with optional backplane stacking.
6. UADP 2.0 Mini with integrated CPU offers customers optimized scale with better cost structure.
7. IEEE 802.3bt class 6 and Cisco UPOE (up to 60W per port) on Catalyst 9200CX models for delivering network power to devices requiring higher power.
8. Fast PoE, which starts delivering power to endpoints without waiting for the operating system to fully load, thereby speeding up time for critical endpoints such as medical devices or IoT endpoints like PoE-powered lights during a switch reboot.
9. Automated device provisioning for automating the process of upgrading software images and installing configuration files on Cisco Catalyst switches when they are being deployed in the network for the first time.        
10. Seamless software upgrades and patching, which supports OS resilience with cold patching with reboot for critical bugs and security vulnerabilities between regular maintenance releases.
These features make the Cisco Catalyst 9200 series an ideal choice for businesses looking to simplify their IT operations while providing a secure and resilient network infrastructure for their growing digital demands.    
PS C:\llama2_local> 